XII - THE LIFE WE DESERVE
- SOPHIA: Things are not getting better.
Although it seems
they've figured the critters out already.
- AMICIA: Others did before
and died anyway.
It's too late, we must go.
- HUGO: But...
- AMICIA: It's not just about
this island anymore, Hugo.
We need to leave
or we'll doomed everything.
Careful with the drop here.
- HUGO: Yes.
Oh...
He's dead.
- AMICIA: No choice... Sorry...
- HUGO: Yes... Sorry...
- AMICIA: Come, wel'll cross.
Now we do things safe and slow.
No taking stupid risks.
Hugo, if you feel funny,
tell us right away.
- HUGO: I will.
- SOPHIA: Can't wait to leave this rock.
- AMICIA: Alright, the harbour, come.
- SOLDIER: Hey! My lady!
- SOPHIA: What is it now?
- SOLDIER: You're the Countess' guest, aren't you?
Are you hurt?
- AMICIA: No...
- SOLDIER: We have orders...
to escort you safely to the palace.
- AMICIA: Actually... we were about to leave...
- SOLDIER: You have guests.
- AMICIA: Guests?
Who?
- SOLDIER: Your mother, and a boy.
- AMICIA: Of course...
- HUGO: Do you think she's going to scold us?
- AMICIA: I don't know... I...
- HUGO: We should go see her.
It's been a long time.
- AMICIA: Yes.
We can't run away from this, I guess.
- SOPHIA: Wow... Look at the two of you.
Only a mum can have such power over someone.
Alright, you know what...
I'll head to the harbour and prepare the boat.
You join me as soon as you can.
- AMICIA: Take this.
Whatever happens...
Keep this flame alive, alright?
- HUGO: Yes. Be careful.
- SOPHIA: Don't worry.
I've learnt from both of you.
- AMICIA: Lead the way then.
- HUGO: What will we tell her?
- AMICIA: The truth.
We found what we came for.
And I'm the one to blame.
- HUGO: I'll defend you.
- AMICIA: My hero.
- SOLDIER: Hurry!
Move before they come back.
- AMICIA: Is the palace going to hold, sir?
- SOLDIER: For now.
The Count opened that gates to the people.
But there're so many dead and wounded.
- AMICIA: We've seen that.
- SOLDIER: Careful. Stay back.
- HUGO: It's like the one we saw...
The broken one.
- AMICIA: Shh... Yes.
Where did they get it?
- SOLDIER: You're safe
as long as you stay inside this light.
But outside, without light.
- AMICIA: Yes.
We know.
- SOLDIER: Anyway, you're safe now.
- AMICIA: Are you not planning to evacuate?
- SOLDIER: Not yet.
Not until we've got everybody regrouped.
- MAN 1: Get to the bridge. Hold the line!
- MAN 2: We need more fires
on the main road!
- SOLDIER: Keep up the pace.
Keep these flames fed.
- HUGO: It looks like a war.
- MAN 3: Come give me a hand with this!
- MAN 4: The rats are pushing on our east flank.
We need torches there!
- AMICIA: They should've evacuated.
- HUGO: Yes, no one can win against them.
- MAN 5: The cart stays here lady.
We need it to carry the wounded.
- WOMAN: Er... My belongings?
- MAN 5: You can bring them inside.
- WOMAN: Alright... I understand. Good luck.
- MAN 6: Dig trenches along the ramparts
and fill them with tar. Keep 'em burning.
Any breach could make the palace falls.
- MAN 7: And...
If the rats enter the palace?
- MAN 6: Then you're dead.
Keep them burning!
- AMICIA: This is all in ...
- HUGO: Another one.
- SOLDIER: We've got wounded up here.
It's not pretty.
The... child... might want to look away.
- HUGO: I know blood.
- AMICIA: Still, try not to look.
(COUGHING)
- MAN 8: My arm!! It's burning!
- HUGO: They're the ones
who've been bitten.
- AMICIA: Yes... it will soon spread.
- WOMAN 2: It can't be!
- MAN 9: It's over. Let him go.
- WOMAN 2: No! No!
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
- HUGO: Children...
- HUGO: This is... my fault.
- AMICIA: Shhh... Please...
- SOLDIER: Through there. Be safe.
- AMICIA: You too.
- HUGO: Mummy!
- LUCAS: You're here!
- BÉATRICE: My God, you're alive.
- AMICIA: Mother...
- BÉATRICE: Come here.
Please, come here.
- AMICIA: Mother...
- BÉATRICE: How are you?
Your head?
- AMICIA: It's fine, don't worry.
How did you find us?
- BÉATRICE: You left quite a trail behind you.
But tell me...
Is it the one?
This island?
- LUCAS: The one from your dream.
- HUGO: There was another Carrier, like me.
- LUCAS: Another Carrier?
- AMICIA: Yes.
Back in the Sixth Century.
A child called Basilius...
We... found him... chained...
In an Order prison
designed especially for him.
- BÉATRICE: What?
- AMICIA: I think they panicked
when he reached his last threshold.
They took him away from his Protector.
Locked him in there... to...
Contempt what would happen next.
- LUCAS: A new plague?
In the Sixth Century, that's...
- BÉATRICE: The Justinean plague.
We knew it was connected to the Macula but...
So it started here.
With this Basilius...
- HUGO: But it was not his fault.
He was just... all alone and scared.
- AMICIA: Yes.
Mother...
Magister Vaudin said Hugo was condemned.
But this is what the Order believes.
Based on their mistake in the past with Basilus.
If he had his Protector...
...like Hugo has us.
I'm sure nothing would've happened.
Think about it.
During the last months on the road...
The times when it was quiet...
Everything was just fine.
He was fine.
- BÉATRICE: That's true.
- AMICIA: Something tells me
that if we settle down somewhere safe.
And live there as a family.
- BÉATRICE: Maybe the plague would stop.
With time...
- AMICIA: It would stop getting worse.
- BÉATRICE: Fear really clouded our minds, didn't it?
Except yours, Protector.
- HUGO: Yes.
- BÉATRICE: Remember that house
we had on the mountain?
We'll be great there.
- HUGO: We'll be big and tall.
- SOLDIER: Sorry to interrupt.
The Count wants to see you.
- AMICIA: Me?
Now?
But we're about to leave.
- SOLDIER: He's the Count of Provence, my lady.
- BÉATRICE: Yes.
We'll wait for you.
For now we're safe in here
than outside anyway.
- AMICIA: Fine, take me to him.
- SOLDIER: Follow me.
- AMICIA: Do you know
what the Count wants with me?
- SOLDIER: No.
- AMICIA: I thought he was be attending
to more urgent matters.
- SOLDIER: Seeing you
must be an urgent matter.
Act put dignity in his presence.
These are dark times.
He's touched, like any of us.
- AMICIA: Alright, I will.
- VICTOR: The main gate is secure enough
for now but the western rampart is still weak.
If the rats enter through there
we won't be able to evacuate the wounded.
Now, I want to know
where those rats come from.
- SOLDIER: Wait here.
- VICTOR: Send scouts.
If we can find a way to slow them...
Stop them, or send them to hell,
it'll be worth the risk.
- SOLDIER: Sire, she's here.
- VICTOR: Good.
This is a war unlike any other.
But it is still a war.
Dismissed. And have faith.
It's not over yet.
- SOLDIERS: Yes, sir.
- VICTOR: Come, I need you.
- AMICIA: Very well.
- SOLDIER: Count.
- VICTOR: So you survived those beasts?
- AMICIA: Barely.
I'm sorry... for your land.
- VICTOR: A Lord should know
that no peace lasts forever.
But I confess that after years of war
I had dared to hope that this one would...
- AMICIA: I understand.
The scars are still so vivid.
They fill the mind when you want only rest.
Er... sorry... I...
- VICTOR: No...
That's...
Exactly it...
- AMICIA: It's only human...
I think.
- VICTOR: You're right.
But it doesn't stop you from being there
when battle calls.
- AMICIA: Yes.
Is the child really coming?
- VICTOR: All the signs are here.
- AMICIA: You mean... the rats?
- VICTOR: Not only the rats... Come.
You'll see for yourself.
- AMICIA: Yes.
- VICTOR: (DRAWS SWORD)
- VICTOR: Emilie wants the boy, Amicia.
I'm sorry but she's sure now.
- AMICIA: Sure about what?
- VICTOR: That your brother
is the Child of Embers.
She must have him so you must die.
- AMICIA: No no, listen!
You're all completely wrong about this.
Your cult... Everything.
- VICTOR: You're probably right.
Because I invented most of it.
And I did it for her.
- AMICIA: What?
- VICTOR: Emilie...
Her bloody parents broke her mind
until she tried to take her own life.
Poisoned her own body.
So I brought her here,
offered her this Child of Embers story
And not only did she believe it.
She turned it into hope for the people.
- AMICIA: You've fed her a lie.
- VICTOR: What are you trying to do?
Accept your fate!
Urhh... Damn you!
- AMICIA: Hugo... Run!
- VICTOR: How dare you!
Come back!
- AMICIA: Get back to them! Go!
- VICTOR: I won't lose her!
Not for you!
- AMICIA: Go to hell!
- VICTOR: Where are you going?
- AMICIA: You won't have him!
Move! To the right! Come on! Quick!
- VICTOR: You can't imagine
what's at stake!
- AMICIA: Go to hell, you bastard!
- VICTOR: I tried to be patient...
- AMICIA: No... No! You won't get him!
- VICTOR: I'll find you!
And you will die like a dog!
- SERVANT: Hey! What's going on?
- AMICIA: I need help, please!
How do I get out of here?
- SERVANT: Who are you?
- VICTOR: Where is she?
- SERVANT: Er... behind that dresser.
- AMICIA: No! Shut up!
- VICTOR: Right, everybody out!
- AMICIA: Keep out of sight.
- VICTOR: You and me... Now...
Come on. Let's finish this.
I know it seems unfair.
But you don't know what it takes to rule.
War. It's so easy.
I could destroy everything.
But she showed me another way.
She has a light about her.
You've seen it!
(DOOR OPENS)
- MAN: Hey! What's going on?
- AMICIA: Stay back!
- MAN: No! You're trespassing!
- VICTOR: Where are you running?
There's no escape!
- AMICIA: Mother, Lucas...
If he touched them...
- VICTOR: It's too late!
Now she knows he exists.
- AMICIA: Bastard! Bastard!
(POT BREAKS)
- VICTOR: People believe in her
as much as in the Child.
- AMICIA: Stay away from me!
- VICTOR: Don't you get it?
This is bigger than YOU! Give up!
Surrender your brother!
We can do this the easy way!
- AMICIA: You're crazy! You'll all die
if you take him away from us!
- VICTOR: Don't be so dramatic!
You'll simply disappear
and the world won't care.
Just let go!
- AMICIA: You've lived a lie for so long.
You can't see the truth anymore!
- VICTOR: The truth
is everything's rotten but her!
She's the only reason
this world is not burning.
But we will protect your brother
from that rot.
All right. Let's play.
I'm good at this game, you'll see.
- AMICIA: GO TO HELL!!1
You pig!
I need to find the others, quick!
Must be a way to get back upstairs.
(GROANS) He ruined my shoulder for good.
(GROANS) It hurts...
Too noisy...
- VICTOR: Huh? You chose the hard way.
- AMICIA: No time. Quick! Move!
- VICTOR: I hear you.
Fear makes you sloppy.
- AMICIA: Lose him! Quick!
- VICTOR: Amicia, you can't hide from me
behind that.
- AMICIA: No way out. Hide!
Through here, quiet.
The door, gotta lock him inside!
Don't stop. You can do it!
- VICTOR: What? You dirty little... NO!
- AMICIA: Faster! Come on come on!
- VICTOR: Wherever you go, I'll find y...
Grhhhh... (ANIMAL NOISE)
- AMICIA: Yes... Go go!
Now where's the exit?
Give me a goddamn exit!
- VICTOR: Running again?
You're tireless.
- AMICIA: Shut... the hell... up!
- VICTOR: (MANIAC LAUGHTER)
You did it! Amazing!
You know...
you remind me of old times.
Of myself...
Now, I'll see you...
\where you blood flows!
- AMICIA: Please! Stop this madness...
I can't...
Don't faint now... Hugo...
They'll take him away...
Mother... Lucas...
Get them out of here...
(GROANS) Even if it hurts...
Pain... it's all you have...
You know it well...
(BREATHING RAPIDLY)
So use it... Use it against them!
- EMILIE: Don't be afraid.
Yes, you failed, but...
This child was never truly yours.
I feel so full of him.
- BÉATRICE: Hugo won't fill
the wound of your past.
He will fill no void in you.
You'll die.
Everybody will.
- EMILIE: No.
He will be loved.
He will shine.
Like a brighter sun.
Propel this darkness. And I...
I'll just be a mother.
Watching the first steps of a God.
- AMICIA: Shut up!
You have no claim to this family!
- BÉATRICE: Amicia!
- EMILIE: How are you still alive?
- AMICIA: Where's Hugo?
- LUCAS: Inside, go! Run!
- BÉATRICE: Amicia, NO!
- EMILIE: At last.
- VICTOR: Sorry, my love.
But this one's a hell of a fighter.
- VICTOR: Now this...
(SWORD CLANGING
ON THE GROUND)
This is an invitation I can't refuse.
You caught me by surprise, I'm impressed.
You're quite something, you know.
You face me...
Thinking with all your soul
that you can defeat me.
- AMICIA: I can...
You won't have my brother.
- VICTOR: (SCOFFS)
Such a dedication.
- BÉATRICE: NO! My daughter!
- VICTOR: You have a burning fire inside you.
But a flame without discipline...
Doesn't make a soldier.
It consumes them from within.
- AMICIA: I'm not a soldier!
- VICTOR: Oh, I know...
You fight because you don't have a choice.
I chose this life.
This is why you're fail.
- AMICIA: You talk a lot. Coward!
- VICTOR: Steady your stance!
Stand your ground!
Grip that sword properly.
You're a disgrace to it!
You never fight to defend yourself...
Fight to kill, to conquer.
- AMICIA: Whatever...
You're still a coward!
- LUCAS: Amicia!
- VICTOR: Who do you think you are
to define me?
- AMICIA: I'M...
AMICIA...
DE RUNE!
- VICTOR: (SCOFFS) Shut up!
- AMICIA: AND I KNEEL TO NO ONE!!
- VICTOR: Shut up!
- BÉATRICE: No no no... Amicia!
- LUCAS: No!
Amicia!
- VICTOR: You see?
You kneel just fine.
- BÉATRICE: No...
Nooooo!!!!
Please stop! Please... Stop!!!!
From a mother to another!
- EMILIE: Enough games, Victor.
This is not what we're here for.
- EMILIE: I'm sorry.
War took its toll on my husband.
He gets...
...carried away, sometimes.
I admired you.
Your children are strong.
Your bonds are strong.
When I was her age...
I could only wish
for this kind of love.
But this is not just about us.
For love, it meant to be shared.
To be turned into light.
Shone over the whole world.
Such is the fate of the Child of Embers.
- BÉATRICE: Love can kill, Emilie.
By the time you realise that...
...it will be too late.
- EMILIE: For now...
It will be quick.
- AMICIA: (GROANS)
- BÉATRICE: I'm so proud of you.
- AMICIA: No...
- AMICIA: Noooooo!!!!
(TENSE MUSIC BUILDS UP)
- HUGO: (PANTING)
Amicia?
Mummy?
I feel funny.
(DOOR CREAKING)
Amicia?
Mummy?
Lucas?
Where are you?
Where... is everyone?
Ohh... My head...
(SCREECHING NOISE)
Is... this a dream?
No...
It's not...
It's real...
(DISTANT CHANTING)
Oh...
There's people.
What are you doing?
- VICTOR: Hm... Emilie.
- EMILIE: Oh... My baby boy!
You should get back to bed!
- HUGO: Mom?
- AMICIA: Hugo...
- HUGO: You killed her...
- EMILIE: No no!
I...I'll take you back to bed.
Victor... take him back, will you?
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
(GROUND RUMBLING)
- VICTOR: What?
- SOLDIER: Sire, we can't stay here.
We'll get her from inside.
- EMILIE: It's you...
It's you! I knew it!
- VICTOR: Emilie, I'll come get you!
- EMILIE: No... What are you doing?
Please... Please!
I'll be a better mother!
I'll be a better mother!!
- AMICIA: You need more.
You need more rats!
- EMILIE: Please!!
- AMICIA: She's stuck! Take her down!
Call more!
- HUGO: They'll come for blood!
- SOLDIER: Protect the Countess at all cost!
- AMICIA: There's your blood!
Let the rats eat them!
- EMILIE: What're you doing?
- AMICIA: We're making you pay!
Keep going Hugo!
- LUCAS: Wow... What?
What is that?
- EMILIE: Stop! They won't hurt you, my child!
It's her they want!
- HUGO: Shut up! You'll all die!
- EMILIE: No, Hugo!
This is a mistake!
- SOLDIER: Kill that damned girl!
Whatever the cost!
- AMICIA: Yes... Come... Come to me...
Give us your blood!
- LUCAS: Too close!
They're far too close!!
- AMICIA: It's working. Keep going!
More rats are coming!
- EMILIE: She's deceiving you, Hugo!
Stop this!
- HUGO: No! I'll eat you alive!
- EMILIE: Please!!!
- LUCAS: He won't hold, Amicia!
- AMICIA: Good! Let him!
- HUGO: (YELLING)
- AMICIA: Don't stop Hugo!
You're almost there!
- HUGO: WE... WANT... BLOOD!!!
- AMICIA: Yes! Tear them apart!
- LUCAS: Stop! He's going to lose control!!
- AMICIA: So be it!
- HUGO: (SCREAMING & YELLING)
- AMICIA: Hah... Ha ha... Yes!
That's it! You did it!
It's your turn, Emilie!
WE'LL SPILL YOUR BLOOD NOW!!
- VICTOR: EMILIE, NO!!
NOOO!!!!!!
- SOLDIER: Sire, we need to evacuate! Sire!
It's too late!
- VICTOR: Let me go! LET ME GO!!!
- SOLDIER: Sire, you people need you! Sire!
- VICTOR: You...
...will never leave... this island!
I'LL FINISH THIS!!
(GROUND RUMBLING)
- AMICIA: No!
- LUCAS: Amicia?
Amicia, where are you?
- AMICIA: I'm... I'm here.
Oh... Oh no...
Hugo...
Hugo!
No!
Answer me!
Say something!
Hugo!
No!
- HUGO: (COUGHS)
- AMICIA: Oh... Thank you...
Thank you...
We're alright.
You're alright.
(SOBBING)